The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Journals of Lewis and Clark, 1804-1806

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE JOURNALS OF LEWIS AND CLARK, 1804-1806 ***

[Lewis, September 21, 1805]
Saturday September 21st 1805.
We were detained this morning untill 11 OCk. in consequence of not
being able to collect our horses. we then set out and proceeded along
the ridge on which we had encamped, leaving which at 11/2 we passed a
large creek runing to the left just above it's junction with another
which run parrallel with and on the left of our road before we struck
the creek; through the level wide and heavy timbered bottom of this
creek we proceeded about 21/2 miles when bearing to the right we passed
a broken country heavily timbered great quantities of which had fallen
and so obstructed our road that it was almost impracticable to proceed
in many places. though these hills we proceeded about 5 Ms. when we
passed a small creek on which Capt Clark encamped on the 19th passing
this creek we continued our rout 5 Ms thro a similar country when we
struck a large creek at the forks, passed the Northen branch and
continued down it on the West side 1 mile and encamped in a small open
bottom where there was tolerable food for our horses. I directed the
horses to be hubbled to prevent delay in the morning being determined
to make a forced march tomorrow in order to reach if possible the open
country. we killed a few Pheasants, and I killd a prarie woolf which
together with the ballance of our horse beef and some crawfish which we
obtained in the creek enabled us to make one more hearty meal, not
knowing where the next was to be found. the Arborvita increases in
quantity and size. I saw several sticks today large enough to form
eligant perogues of at least 45 feet in length.--I find myself growing
weak for the want of food and most of the men complain of a similar
deficiency and have fallen off very much. the general course of this
day S 30 W 15M.




[Clark, September 21, 1805]
Septr. 21st Saturday 1805
a fine morning Sent out all the hunters early in different directions
to Kill Something and delayed with the Indians to prevent Suspicion &
to acquire as much information as possible. one of them Drew me a Chart
of the river & nations below informed of one falls below which the
white men lived from whome they got white beeds cloth &c. &c. The day
proved warm, 2 Chifs of Bands visited me to day--the hunters all
returned without any thing, I collected a horse load of roots & 3
Sammon & Sent R Fields with one Indian to meet Capt Lewis at 4 oClock
Set out with the other men to the river, passed thro a fine Pine
Country decended a Steep ruged hill verry long to a Small river which
comes from our left and I suppose it to be ____ River passed down the
river 2 miles on a Steep hill side at r r oClock P.M. arrived at a camp
of 5 Squars a boy & 2 Children those people were glad to See us & gave
us drid Sammon one had formerly been taken by the Minitarries of the
north & Seen white men, our guide called the Chief who was fishing on
the other Side of the river, whome I found a Cherfull man of about 65 I
gave him a Medal.




[Clark, September 21, 1805]
Thursday 21st Septr. 1805
A fine morning Sent out all the hunters in different directions to hunt
deer, I myself delayd with the Chief to prevent Suspission and to
Collect by Signs as much information as possible about the river and
Countrey in advance. The Cheif drew me a kind of chart of the river,
and informed me that a greater Cheif than himself was fishing at the
river half a days march from his village called the twisted hare, and
that the river forked a little below his Camp and at a long distance
below & below 2 large forks one from the left & the other from the
right the river passed thro'gh the mountains at which place was a great
fall of the water passing through the rocks, at those falls white
people lived from whome they preceured the white Beeds & Brass &c.
which the womin wore; a Chief of another band visit me to day and
Smoked a pipe, I gave my handkerchief & a Silver Cord with a little
Tobacco to those Chiefs, The hunters all return without any thing, I
purchased as much Provisions as I could with what fiew things I chaned
to have in my Pockets, Such a Salmon Bread roots & berries, & Sent one
man R. Fields with an Indian to meet Capt. Lewis, and at 4 oClock P M.
Set out to the river, met a man at dark on his way from the river to
the village, whome I hired and gave the neck handkerchief of one of the
men, to polit me to the Camp of the twisted hare we did not arrive at
the Camp of the Twisted hare but oppost, untill half past 11 oClock P
M. found at this Camp five Squars & 3 Children. my guide called to the
Chief who was Encamped with 2 others on a Small Island in the river, he
Soon joind me, I found him a Chearfull man with apparant Siencerity, I
gave him a medal &c. and Smoked untill 1 oClock a.m. and went to Sleep.
The Countrey from the mountains to the river hills is a leavel rich
butifull Pine Countrey badly watered, thinly timbered & covered with
grass--The weather verry worm after decending into the low Countrey,-
the river hills are verry high & Steep, Small bottoms to this little
river which is Flat head & is 160 yards wide and Sholey This river is
the one we killed the first Coalt on near a fishing were I am verry
Sick to day and puke which relive me.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE JOURNALS OF LEWIS AND CLARK, 1804-1806 ***
